Module 1: What is code? Reading and reflection. 
Module 1 Objective: To read and reflect on the nature of code and creation through digitized data and software. 
Read Article: https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2015-paul-ford-what-is-code/ 
Answer the following questions in a .txt file saved as: What_is_code_reflection 
In your own words, what is a computer really doing whenever you type a letter on a keyboard? (150 words max) 
It converts my input into a readable character on the screen. According to the article it does a sort of machine to human conversion, so that I can read in the primary output, which is a computer display. It presents it to me as an image that is not more than a combination of pixels grouped together.
In your own words, how do computers use input and output to create experiences? (250 words max) 
Computers capture and store and convert all data inputs like pictures from a camera or scanner, letters from the keyboard, sounds from the microphone and a the request or instantaneously outputs the information to computer, TVs, tables and smartphones displays. It can also print text and images into paper using a printer and can play music or recording by sending the sound frequencies through the speakers. It is all about converting electronic inputs into visual or auditory representations for the human eyes and ear to experience them.
Explain why software products are essentially “infinitely reproducible nothings.” (150 words max) 
Because the computer can repeat itself and a program can be reused in different ways. Also, a programmer can do things once and have the computer repeat mundane tasks that become repetitive and a routine for a human.
Explain in your own words how code becomes software. (150 words max) 
A code is a set of algorithms group together and organized in functions that can be executed to produce results in the order that was programmed to do so.
Explain “algorithms” in your own words. (150 words max) 
Algorithms are a set of steps or methods on how to accomplish different tasks in order to achieve a goal or to complete a project. 
Explain the DRY principle. (100 words max) 
DRY principle stands for Don’t Repeat Yourself. In general it pertains to doing things once like writing a function once and let the program re-use it without having to write the same line of code over and over again later in the program.
In your own words, what is object-oriented programming? (100 words max) 
Object-oriented programming is about writing software or coding programs. I should say that take into consideration the real world objects in an abstract way to allow the computer to control it as well as facilitating the life of humans.
In your own words explain data and how it relates to code. (100 Words max) 
Our world is all about data, everything a piece of information, even the hardware that we use has some data coded into memories to describe the characteristics, functions or specifications of each device. Its relationship with code is that a good programmer will need to know how to make use of data in order to write efficient programs that can work without going beyond the computer set limitations. 
What is a framework? (150 words max) 
Framework is a base pre-package set of software that a programmer can use as a head start in order to create an application based on the language that the framework package is about. I.e .NET is a Microsoft Framework that can be use to create C# or ASP.NET web applications.  
What is debugging? (150 words max)? 
Debugging is  the practice of finding what is breaking a program. It could be a new set of code added, a new function interfering with others, a typo or just a hardware software incompatibility.
Now, with more of an understanding of what code is, why do you want to learn how to code? (500 words max) 
I would say I chose the path to become a coder, because it is the way to unlock my future and coding is and always will be a life saver. Coding is getting more and more in demand and it feels like it is not stopping any time soon. There is always a new language and new careers asking for experiences even in a new language like Python. 
If I could choose, I would continue learning Java Enterprise Edition, but I am realizing that Python is as the book says it comes with battery include and it is clean and neat for writing minimalist code. 
I know it could become an argument which Java and JavaScript over Python, but for the sake of Data Science, which don’t really need to get too deep into programming I am really interested in learning the versatility and practicality of using Python for my Data manipulation and data research projects now and in the future to use its math and data visualization libraries.
Then I know later on I can integrate it into Java with Jython to create powerful web based data reports running over any machine and Web server.